---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Books"
date:   2017-12-30 11:16:03
---

List of the 46 books I read in 2017. Averaged about 3 books per month. I have put in **bold** those which I consider to be the best books I have read this year; if they're the first book in a series, then the bold applies to all books in that series. A lot of science fiction and fantasy this year, and a few memoirs. 

1. The Stars My Destination by Alfred Bester
2. A Series of Unfortunate Events by Lemony Snicket (Books 1 - 6) (re-read)
3. The Forever War by Joe Haldeman
4. **Dune by Frank Herbert**
5. Dune Messiah by Frank Herbert
6. Children of Dune by Frank Herbert
7. Stranger in a Strange Land by Robert A. Heinlein
8. **Use of Weapons by Iain M. Banks**
9. Ender's Game by Orson Scott Card (re-read)
10. I, Robot by Isaac Asimov
11. Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen (re-read)
12. Shattered by Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes
13. Armor by John Steakley
14. Speaker for the Dead by Orson Scott Card
15. **Sleeping Giants by Sylvain Neuvel**
16. Waking Gods by Sylvain Neuvel
17. Revenger by Alastair Reynolds
18. **The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss**
19. The Wise Man's Fear by Patrick Rothfuss
20. **Leviathan Wakes by James S.A. Corey**
21. Caliban's War by James S.A. Corey
22. Abaddon's Gate by James S.A. Corey
23. Cibola Burn by James S.A. Corey 
24. Nemesis Games by James S.A. Corey
25. Babylon's Ashes by James S.A. Corey
26. The Gatekeepers by Chris Wipple
27. Al Franken, Giant of the Senate by Al Franken
28. The Grace of Kings by Ken Liu
29. The Wall of Storms by Ken Liu
30. **One Bullet Away by Nathaniel Fick**
31. **The Fifth Season by N.K. Jemisin**
32. Thanks, Obama by David Litt
33. The Obelisk Gate by N.K. Jemisin
34. The Stone Sky by N.K. Jemisin
35. The Northern Lights by Philip Pullman (re-read)
36. The Subtle Knife by Philip Pullman (re-read)
37. The Amber Spyglass by Philip Pullman (re-read)
38. Who Thought This Was a Good Idea? by Alyssa Mastromonaco
39. Artemis by Andy Weir
40. To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee (re-read)
41. The City & the City by China Miéville
42. The Book of Dust Volume 1: La Belle Sauvage by Philip Pullman
43. Gates of Fire by Steven Pressfield
44. Armada by Ernest Cline
45. **Ancillary Justice by Ann Leckie**
46. Ancillary Sword by Ann Leckie