---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Books"
date:   2018-12-31 11:16:03
---

List of books I read in 2018. Only read 33 this year, due to graduating college and moving into the real world. I have put in **bold** those which I consider to be the best books I have read this year.

1. **Ancillary Mercy by Ann Leckie**
2. Hellstrom's Hive by Frank Herbert
3. Persepolis Rising by James S.A. Corey
4. Neverwhere by Neil Gaiman
5. Surface Details by Iain M. Banks
6. **Provenance by Ann Leckie**
7. Annihilation by Jeff VanderMeer
8. **The Good Soldiers by David Finkel**
9. Dark Matter by Blake Crouch
10. Ready Player One by Ernest Cline (re-read)
11. The Silence of the Lambs by Thomas Harris (re-read)
12. Fight Like A Girl by Kate Germano and Kelly Kennedy
13. The Hellfire Club by Jake Tapper
14. A Higher Loyalty by James Comey
15. Sleeping Giants by Sylvain Neuvel (re-read)
16. Waking Gods by Sylvain Neuvel (re-read)
17. Only Human by Sylvain Neuvel
18. Eat the Apple by Matt Young
19. The Blade Itself by Joe Abercrombie
20. Before They Are Hanged by Joe Abercrombie
21. The Last Argument of Kings by Joe Abercrombie
22. **The Paper Menagerie and Other Stories by Ken Liu**
23. Dreams From My Father by Barack Obama
24. Yes We (Still) Can by Dan Pfeiffer
25. The World As It Is by Ben Rhodes
26. Crazy Rich Asians trilogy by Kevin Kwan
27. The Last Unicorn by Peter S. Beagle
28. **The Power by Naomi Alderman**
29. **The Underground Railroad by Colson Whitehead**
30. Dogs of War by Adrian Tchaikovsky
31. Outlaw Platoon by Sean Parnell
32. The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss (re-read)
33. The Wise Man's Fear by Patrick Rothfuss (re-read)